hey guys today a tip that may or may not
save your images one day now having a
good backup strategy is incredibly
important for digital files because if
it's gone in most cases it's really gone
you can use image recovery software but
trust me it's it's a disaster area
now our backup strategy is normally they
will use one backup off-site which we
update like once a month we use one
backup on a network at that storage unit
and us and we use one backup that is
actually the one I work on and that's a
naysayer tower now during copying this
weekend we actually lost one session
because one of our backups actually
crashed and how do you get your images
back well with data recovery it's often
a little bit of a gamble now let's say
that didn't work and you have something
like this in Lightroom not this will
panic you probably because you see all
these question marks for all your years
of images this is terrible right well
luckily this is just one of my drives
and out turned off so don't worry guys I
still have all my images but how do you
get the images back because if he's
looking in Lightroom you can still see
that we have pretty high resolution
previews right now when you import your
files you can actually put it like this
you can say build smart previews
standard or one on one now if you want
to make absolutely sure that you get the
highest quality image back if in case of
a disaster use one on one I normally use
standard because as mentioned before we
have a pretty good backup strategy so
the images are still here but where are
they well they're actually buried inside
your Lightroom catalog now this is also
very very important why you should store
your Lightroom catalog on a different
drive we use an SSD drive on the
computer which is totally separate from
where we store the images so let's see
how we get them back and I will show you
two setups the first one is full manual
the second one is free and an amazing
plugging so these two images I want to
get back and I have two previews and I
will go here and I will go into file
export as catalog
now I will store it somewhere on my
drive and give it a name let's say a
temp and it's very important include
available previews so export catalog
yeah you know of course it didn't find
your original images because my drive is
offline at the moment press ok and now
you go into that folder and what you can
now actually see is a previews and smart
previews ok let's go into the previews
show package contents and you see the
two images here and it's a D and G so
you can just open it up in Photoshop
there we go
say open image and here we go and now
you can store it of course it's the
resolution of the preview so it's not as
big as the original one unless you use
one-on-one previews but this is a lot of
work right and the main problem is if
you need to get a lot of images back
let's say that this was reality that
will take a lot of time and will
probably cost you well I don't even want
to think about that one so there's also
a plugin and this is actually a pretty
good one if you go to this site and I
will show it to you in the bottom you
can see that there's a plugin called
Jeffries extract cached image previews
and this is awesome you just download it
and put it in your plugins folders in
Lightroom and now the only thing you
have to do is you select the images and
you go to file and go to plug-in extras
extract pretty few images now where do
you want it to go well let's put it in
this folder
display thumbnails reject metadata okay
no problem
and you can also do consider only photos
whose master image file is missing
that's a pretty handy if for example
onedrive is missing or you have several
drives and you don't know where the
images are gone because you deleted them
by accident and begin extraction now
this is a lot faster right and it shows
you the resolution also so
first make sure you have a good backup
system because this is a last resort you
won't get the original images bad guys
even if you store one-on-one previews
it's not as good as the original but if
you have to choose between seeing them
never again or getting the images back
via your previews from Lightroom I think
this is a pretty good solution but again
make sure that you store your images on
several locations and make sure you have
a good backup strategy and again one of
the most important things make sure that
your catalog is on a different drive
from the drive where your images are and
if you make a backup of your catalog
also spread it out over several discs so
thank you and I hope this will help some
people who are may be experiencing some
real panic